# LiBIO (Liquid Biomaker of Immunotherapy Outcomes) score
## Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapy has shown promise for treating head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), but only a subset of patients exhibit a meaningful response. Hence, identifying predictive biomarkers of the ICB response remains a critical roadblock. Here, for the first time, we systematically characterize the dynamic changes in the blood during ICB treatment across four different time points in a mouse HNSCC model treated with anti-PD-1 ICB. We profile serial pre and on-treatment liquid biopsies, both by single cell (SC) and bulk RNA with tandem SC-TCR sequencing to identify liquid predictors of the ICB response. 
## This study charts the host peripheral response to ICB therapy on an unprecedented scale. We observe significant differences in the clonal expansion and temporal dynamics of effector memory T cells (Tem) and B cells between responders and non-responder mice. These changes were most prominent in mice at an early on-treatment time point, highlighting this time point as optimal for assessing ICB efficacy. Remarkably, the resulting LiBIO score which integrates the Tem and B cell signatures, successfully predict ICB response in HNSCC patients across multiple tumor and blood cohorts, without any additional training. Its application using one fixed decision threshold yields a fairly high predictive odds ratio of response, which surpasses the predictive power of existing biomarkers, including a newly generated validation cohort of HNSCC patients treated with ICB.  
## Collectively, our preclinical insights support the premise that peripheral immune events can serve as a foundation for biomarker discovery, offering a non-invasive, biologically grounded approach to monitor and predict immunotherapy outcomes with high fidelity in HNSCC patients. Finally, the approach presented lays a solid basis for developing similar biomarkers in other cancer indications. 

